README.md, before:

dpkg-licenses
=============
A command line tool which lists the licenses of all installed packages in a Debian-based system (like Ubuntu)

How it works
------------

Almost every package in Debian contains a copyright file in
`/usr/share/doc/<packagename>/copyright`. Unfortunately, this file was
initially a plain-text file without a specified format, not even specified
what it should contain. In 2012, Debian tried to change this by specifying
a machine-readable format (http://dep.debian.net/deps/dep5/). Until now,
this specification is not a requirement, and many developers don't care
about it, so that reading out the licenses of all packages is still a pain.
But in business, there is a regular demand for such license information.

A google search showed me that until now nobody tried to parse these files
or found another approach to lists the licenses:
 - http://askubuntu.com/questions/247757/how-do-you-find-the-licenses-for-everything-installed-on-your-system/620069#620069
 - http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1884753/license-info-of-a-deb-package#1884785

dpkg-licenses tries to read these well-formatted licenses file and has
multiple fallbacks for the case that it isn't well-formatted. You can
probably imagine how hard it is to read a license from a unformatted
plain-text file.

Feel free to try this tool. Any suggestions are welcome.

Sample output
-------------

    $ ./dpkg-licenses
    St  Name             Version               Arch   Description                                   Licenses
    --  ----             -------               ----   -----------                                   --------
    ii  accountsservice  0.6.35-0ubuntu7.2     amd64  query and manipulate user account informatio  GPL-2+ GPL-3+
    ii  acl              2.2.52-1              amd64  Access control list utilities                 GPL LGPL-2.1
    ii  acpi-support     0.142                 amd64  scripts for handling many ACPI events         GPL-2+
    ii  acpid            1:2.0.21-1ubuntu2     amd64  Advanced Configuration and Power Interface e  GPL-2
    ii  adduser          3.113+nmu3ubuntu3     all    add and remove users and groups               GPL-2
    ii  alsa-base        1.0.25+dfsg-0ubuntu4  all    ALSA driver configuration files               GPL-2
    ii  alsa-utils       1.0.27.2-1ubuntu2     amd64  Utilities for configuring and using ALSA      GPL-2
    ii  anacron          2.3-20ubuntu1         amd64  cron-like program that doesn't go by time     GPL-2

The output quality on an average workspace Ubuntu installation looks like this

    $ ./dpkg-licenses >output.txt 2>errors.txt
    $ cat output.txt | cut -c135- | wc -l
    2230
    $ cat output.txt | cut -c135- | grep unknown | wc -l
    228

Interpretation:
 2230 installed packages, success rate of tool is 1−(228/2230) = 90%

However, there is still a lot of garbage:

    ii  autoconf          2.69-6                      all    automatic configure script builder                   GFDL-1.3+ GPL-2+ GPL-2+ with Autoconf exception GPL-3+ GPL-3+ with Autoconf exception GPL-3+ with Texinfo exception MIT-X-Consortium no-modification other permissive permissive-long-disclaimer permissive-short-disclaimer permissive-without-disclaimer permissive-without-notices-or-disclaimer
    ii  bc                1.06.95-8ubuntu1            amd64  GNU bc arbitrary precision calculator language       GPL-2.0+ GPL-2.0+ with Texinfo exception permissive X11 and public-domain
    ii  cron              3.0pl1-124ubuntu2           amd64  process scheduling daemon                            Artistic GPL-2+ ISC Paul Vixie's license Paul Vixie's license and GPL-2+ and ISC
    ii  fonts-opensymbol  2:102.6+LibO4.2.8-0ubuntu3  all    OpenSymbol TrueType font                             Apache-2.0 BSD-3-clause BSD-4-clause CDDL-1.0 CDDL-1.0 | GPPL-2 GPL GPL-1 GPL-2 GPL-2+ GPL-2 | LGPL-2.1 | MPL-1.1 LGPL LGPL-2+ LGPL2+ LGPL-2.1 LGPL-2 | Apache-2.0 LGPL-3 LGPL | Apache-2.0 MIT MIT/X MPL-1.1 MPL-1.1 | GPL-2 | LGPL-2 MPL-1.1 | GPL-3+ | LGPL-3+ MPL-1.1 | LGPL-2.1 MPL 1.1 | LGPL-2+ | GPL-2+ MPL-2.0 other PSF-2 public-domain W3C Zlib
    ii  ghostscript       9.10~dfsg-0ubuntu10.4       amd64  interpreter for the PostScript language and for PDF  AFPL AFPL~AFPL AGPL-3+ Apache-2.0 BSD-3-Clause BSD-3-Clause~Adobe Expat Expat~Ghostgum Expat~SunSoft Expat~SunSoft with SunSoft exception GAP~configure GPL GPL-2+ GPL-2+ or AFPL~AFPL GPL-2+ with Autoconf exception GPL-2+ with Libtool exception GPL-2+~you GPL-2+~you or AFPL GPL-2+~you or AFPL~AFPL GPL-3+ GPL-3+~Artifex GPL~CUPS GPL~LIPS GPL~URW GPL~URW with font exception icclib LGPL-2.1+ LGPL-2.1+ and LGPL-2.1+~program-in-file LGPL-2.1~pcl3 LGPL-2.1+~program-in-file NTP~Lucent NTP~Open NTP~WSU other PD Unicode UNKNOWN ZLIB

Copyright
---------

    Copyright 2016 Daniel Alder, https://github.com/daald

    dpkg-licenses was written by Daniel Alder, https://github.com/daald

    dpkg-licenses is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    dpkg-licenses is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with dpkg-licenses.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Commit message:

hack: just output name|license1|license2| ...
This is easier for further processing.

README.md, after:

dpkg-licenses
=============
A command line tool which lists the licenses of all installed packages in a Debian-based system (like Ubuntu)

*NOTE* This fork is a quick modification that outputs, unlike the document below shows, only the name and licenses using the pipe chraracter as separator. This is easier for further processing, and other data can be gotten from dpkg.

How it works
------------

Almost every package in Debian contains a copyright file in
`/usr/share/doc/<packagename>/copyright`. Unfortunately, this file was
initially a plain-text file without a specified format, not even specified
what it should contain. In 2012, Debian tried to change this by specifying
a machine-readable format (http://dep.debian.net/deps/dep5/). Until now,
this specification is not a requirement, and many developers don't care
about it, so that reading out the licenses of all packages is still a pain.
But in business, there is a regular demand for such license information.

A google search showed me that until now nobody tried to parse these files
or found another approach to lists the licenses:
 - http://askubuntu.com/questions/247757/how-do-you-find-the-licenses-for-everything-installed-on-your-system/620069#620069
 - http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1884753/license-info-of-a-deb-package#1884785

dpkg-licenses tries to read these well-formatted licenses file and has
multiple fallbacks for the case that it isn't well-formatted. You can
probably imagine how hard it is to read a license from a unformatted
plain-text file.

Feel free to try this tool. Any suggestions are welcome.

Sample output
-------------

    $ ./dpkg-licenses
    St  Name             Version               Arch   Description                                   Licenses
    --  ----             -------               ----   -----------                                   --------
    ii  accountsservice  0.6.35-0ubuntu7.2     amd64  query and manipulate user account informatio  GPL-2+ GPL-3+
    ii  acl              2.2.52-1              amd64  Access control list utilities                 GPL LGPL-2.1
    ii  acpi-support     0.142                 amd64  scripts for handling many ACPI events         GPL-2+
    ii  acpid            1:2.0.21-1ubuntu2     amd64  Advanced Configuration and Power Interface e  GPL-2
    ii  adduser          3.113+nmu3ubuntu3     all    add and remove users and groups               GPL-2
    ii  alsa-base        1.0.25+dfsg-0ubuntu4  all    ALSA driver configuration files               GPL-2
    ii  alsa-utils       1.0.27.2-1ubuntu2     amd64  Utilities for configuring and using ALSA      GPL-2
    ii  anacron          2.3-20ubuntu1         amd64  cron-like program that doesn't go by time     GPL-2

The output quality on an average workspace Ubuntu installation looks like this

    $ ./dpkg-licenses >output.txt 2>errors.txt
    $ cat output.txt | cut -c135- | wc -l
    2230
    $ cat output.txt | cut -c135- | grep unknown | wc -l
    228

Interpretation:
 2230 installed packages, success rate of tool is 1−(228/2230) = 90%

However, there is still a lot of garbage:

    ii  autoconf          2.69-6                      all    automatic configure script builder                   GFDL-1.3+ GPL-2+ GPL-2+ with Autoconf exception GPL-3+ GPL-3+ with Autoconf exception GPL-3+ with Texinfo exception MIT-X-Consortium no-modification other permissive permissive-long-disclaimer permissive-short-disclaimer permissive-without-disclaimer permissive-without-notices-or-disclaimer
    ii  bc                1.06.95-8ubuntu1            amd64  GNU bc arbitrary precision calculator language       GPL-2.0+ GPL-2.0+ with Texinfo exception permissive X11 and public-domain
    ii  cron              3.0pl1-124ubuntu2           amd64  process scheduling daemon                            Artistic GPL-2+ ISC Paul Vixie's license Paul Vixie's license and GPL-2+ and ISC
    ii  fonts-opensymbol  2:102.6+LibO4.2.8-0ubuntu3  all    OpenSymbol TrueType font                             Apache-2.0 BSD-3-clause BSD-4-clause CDDL-1.0 CDDL-1.0 | GPPL-2 GPL GPL-1 GPL-2 GPL-2+ GPL-2 | LGPL-2.1 | MPL-1.1 LGPL LGPL-2+ LGPL2+ LGPL-2.1 LGPL-2 | Apache-2.0 LGPL-3 LGPL | Apache-2.0 MIT MIT/X MPL-1.1 MPL-1.1 | GPL-2 | LGPL-2 MPL-1.1 | GPL-3+ | LGPL-3+ MPL-1.1 | LGPL-2.1 MPL 1.1 | LGPL-2+ | GPL-2+ MPL-2.0 other PSF-2 public-domain W3C Zlib
    ii  ghostscript       9.10~dfsg-0ubuntu10.4       amd64  interpreter for the PostScript language and for PDF  AFPL AFPL~AFPL AGPL-3+ Apache-2.0 BSD-3-Clause BSD-3-Clause~Adobe Expat Expat~Ghostgum Expat~SunSoft Expat~SunSoft with SunSoft exception GAP~configure GPL GPL-2+ GPL-2+ or AFPL~AFPL GPL-2+ with Autoconf exception GPL-2+ with Libtool exception GPL-2+~you GPL-2+~you or AFPL GPL-2+~you or AFPL~AFPL GPL-3+ GPL-3+~Artifex GPL~CUPS GPL~LIPS GPL~URW GPL~URW with font exception icclib LGPL-2.1+ LGPL-2.1+ and LGPL-2.1+~program-in-file LGPL-2.1~pcl3 LGPL-2.1+~program-in-file NTP~Lucent NTP~Open NTP~WSU other PD Unicode UNKNOWN ZLIB

Copyright
---------

    Copyright 2016 Daniel Alder, https://github.com/daald

    dpkg-licenses was written by Daniel Alder, https://github.com/daald

    dpkg-licenses is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    dpkg-licenses is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with dpkg-licenses.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
